## Functional consequences of wetland degradation and climate change for breeding birds across different spatial scales ##
This repository has the R code and data to reproduce all the analyses and figures for Özgencil *et al*. (2022).

*Corresponding author*: İ. Kaan Özgencil - kaanozgencil@gmail.com


### HOW TO DOWNLOAD THE WHOLE REPOSITORY FROM GITHUB
**For Windows:** Install GIT from the official website 
(https://git-scm.com/downloads). If you already have R and R Studio
installed, then simply navigate to the folder where you want to 
download the repository and click on the address bar, write "cmd"
and press enter. Then, in the terminal, write "git clone" and minimize
the terminal window. Then, go back to your web browser and go to 
https://github.com/KaanOzgencil/ozgencil_et_al_2022 and
click on the green "Code" button and copy the cloning URL provided
there. Then, go back to the terminal window, press space button to have
a space and then paste the URL you have copied and press enter. 
This should download the whole repository to the folder, path of 
which was used.

**For Mac:** Install GIT on from the official website 
(https://git-scm.com/downloads). Open Spotlight search and write
"terminal" and then open the terminal. Then, write "cd" and simply
drag and drop the folder, where you want to download the repository,
onto the terminal window and press enter. Then, in the terminal, 
write "git clone" and minimize the terminal window. Then, go back to 
your web browser and go to 
https://github.com/KaanOzgencil/ozgencil_et_al_2022 and
click on the green "Code" button and copy the cloning URL provided
there. Then, go back to the terminal window, press space button to have
a space and then paste the URL you have copied and press enter. 
This should download the whole repository to the folder, path of 
which was used.


### FOLDER STRUCTURE
Different folders were assigned for taxonomic diversity and functional
diversity analyses, both of which have their own scripts. Each main
folder has within them three subfolders named data, figs, and output.
Data subfolder has data used in the scripts, figs has the figures 
generated and the output file has all other kinds of outputs from the 
code.

### ENVIRONMENT OBJECTS
The environment objects have all the objects generated by the code 
ready to save time for the readers because some of the analyses such
as functional diversity calculations with high numbers of PCoA axes
(i.e., traits) can take a very long time.
